okay why can't everyone to this week's
IP LD sync meeting its March the 9th
2020 as always we go over the things
that we've worked on the past week and
what we do next and then we discuss any
open items we might have yeah so where's
the egghead I probably has always
started with myself
so M in the past oh and please put your
name on T on the attendees list I
basically started also to put basically
the attendances from the last week and
then basically ask everyone who is not
attending to remove himself and so yeah
I work on the rough side of things and
so the biggest news is that finally you
rust the Lea p2p is using the upstream
version of Braska multi hash and it had
merged after having a fault for one and
a half years so that's cool and also I
so I moved from rest Marty Heche over to
rust motivation and to rust CID and all
of those have been updated with all the
folks that are out there all the major
forks and I've merged all the changes in
and I think I'm basically done and this
also means that the rust IPS team
finally was able to move the rust IPL
these stuff to the upstream versions and
doesn't use any function anymore because
those were all soft projects basically
this has been done in the past like I
don't know eight weeks or something -
basically getting everything up streamed
and working and so on and also by doing
this also there's no proper CI and all
those repositories and so on and the
next big thing is kind of changing the
licenses from MIT to MA
he and Apache but that's like not a high
priority it's just like kind of in the
background but I'm also working on those
ones and I also had an idea
last Friday about how we can support
custom multi-core cables and that's this
has been an issue in JavaScript
augmentation is a co implementation so
inchoate just comes from somewhere magic
and those correct cables and in
JavaScript it's also kind of like
basically put in all the dependencies
all the time and maybe see it all the
codes all the time it's how to customize
and in rust it's also like this crudely
but I try to find a way and of course
the normally the answers traits but then
I found out that generics might work
really well I'm still like kind of
figuring out but it seems that basically
the short version is that we can define
generics but you can also define custom
types so basically people just import a
custom type don't even see that it is a
generic and just use it and everything
will be fine if they use the default
tonic tables that draw and everything
because this is what you'd normally
would want to do but if someone really
wants to have their custom query table
it just used the generic type directly
pets in their code a table with the
implementations and everything it's kind
of like you'd like quite a bit of work
but let's expect it like if you want
your own custom coding table you'd
normally know what you're doing and you
take the effort of drawing it in and so
hopefully and this is what I need to
check is that because once we compile
from Russ to webassembly you have cost
on board they have like a huge panel
size or you also might use different
hash libraries because some of them use
I don't know like assembler code or
something and so you want to have like
custom ones but yeah you don't want to
draw you know see faces in sauce also
basely
that's the goal and it looks like
generis might work um yeah I'm still
looking into this but that looks
promising so that's cool okay so that's
all I have next one
all right had a fairly slow week between
sick kids and other stuff but I did get
started a jeaious implementation of the
compiler a pretty good progress on that
and finally got to addressing some of
the comments in the PR and my goal this
week is to finish the J's compiler turns
out the generation parts really easy I
just generate a JavaScript object and
then you can pass that to the block API
and since the there one single block it
makes it really easy so I just need to
work through the full parser and
building the AST and make sure all that
is not too hard because I'm keeping in
mind that we're getting multiple
implementations of this so if the spec
needs changing to make it easier to
compile now would be a good time to
change that and that's it I think I
addressed most everyone's comments in
the PR so if anybody wants to follow up
on those I think most of them a result
that's pretty much all I'm doing right
now so I don't have a ton to say about
code this week because I tried to get
into Doc's known for a while
so I've opened a couple of issues one
and that's probably interesting to
everyone here about thinking about our
layering scheme right now I think the
layering scheme is documented as the
block layer the data model layer and
then the schema layer and I'm building
that we maybe want to separate blocks
from codecs and then do something with
the rest of the low
or in scattered places but I think like
for example be trying to use clear
linear layers between the data model and
new schema layer sorted makes sense but
like advanced data layouts aren't really
fitting into this layer cake it will
clear away right now its inclusion cook
on it until something a little more
cogent comes out for us all
separating blocks and codecs could be a
start for that so there's an issue that
I've also been trying to draft a little
bit of a write-up about all the things
about strings know something they ended
up talking about for a while and call
last week and there's a bunch of stuff
where we're all just kind of going by
our best intuition what we think is
perfectly reasonable so far and probably
time to start nailing it down
so that's turned out to be a kind of a
large group endeavor just because
there's so many assumptions that are so
pleasing and so easy to make that
identify and make them sometimes quite
difficult right so I'm trying to break
down a list of like places where the
string questions show up which like kind
of applied question with it like is this
a question about correctness of model or
is it a question about how do we
maintain sandy loving standards are like
no because there's a couple of different
things going on I'm trying to figure out
what they all are if somebody has
thoughts on that let's just send me
their own tracks energy disc will be fun
otherwise I'm hoping to have some sort
of writing about that come out in the
next week but first I was going to try
to jump straight to answers and
geography specs we go if you it's
exactly how the thing works and I don't
know if that's gonna happen on the first
draft I think it's looking much more
likely I'm going to post something with
the exploration report directory and
then we'll go from there might take a
few months and I think we're bunch of
folks I've seen it already but Chris
who's also a man called thus I think
although on Mitas yeah posted an issue
about we're finding the mission
statement and vision statements and
getting some of our intro docs on that
stuff up today there's some really
interesting discussion going on there
so anybody else listening wants to jump
in on that I think it should also go
look in the notes for initiating passive
phone conversation that is most America
thank you and next on my list is your
name which is probably my income whoops
sorry I forgot that I'll fix that
yeah so mostly still just a big data
stuff I'm now dealing with like a lot of
issues that only happen after like hours
of processing so that's super fun to
debug and see if you fixes work but it's
coming along
dag DB the this sort of side cardigan
I'm doing to keep myself sane often that
replicates now so that looks like a big
milestone it's actually quite nice at
some point maybe you like later this
week I should prepare some kind of talk
for the team about it just to kind of
dig into it I learned a lot
building this about kind of how you need
to use a lot of our primitives we're
gonna build databases and it's sort of
reinforced like how important some of
the block API stuff is and also a lot of
like how we thought about how easy
syncing will be was a little bit naive
there's actually some pretty kind of
difficult cases and decisions to make
that are not so straightforward so yeah
it's a it'll be fun and that's it for me
thank you
and next is rod so so mine's not very
heavy but a lot of small things this
past week and not a ton of them so had
both healthy health issues but also this
go course had turned out to be the go
course was good but it was just too
dense too quick as Peter can can
probably attest to and so
disentangling that has been a process so
catching up on old PRS that I needed to
review and and stuff discussions has
been a little bit delay but the
highlights of things I've gone through
is Tim's selector spec finally got a
chance to engage with that and really
interesting work Tim really excited
about seeing your particularly
javascript code for that the go car and
Hammerstein's really some really good
work on that to bring selectors in so
that you can you can make a car file
from it so currently with go car the
only way to make it go car file is from
a data store and a route and it'll do a
dag walk to to fill that up but home is
introduced a an alternative way to do it
which is a you give it a data store and
some routes and so multiple routes and a
selector using proper IPL d-prime
selectors and it'll use ability prime to
do a walk through the selector and put
only those blocks in to the car file now
it's it's still just the same style car
file but it's it's a really good
intermediate step to get to this car v2
potentially where we want where one of
the ideas is to store the selector in
the car files well along with the route
that the selector goes with and so yeah
so that's propel that wasn't merged
overnight but it's ready to be merged
and go out so that's pretty nice I've
been looking through Eric's a massive
pull request 49 on like ble prime which
has got the node assembler notes dial
stuff a pretty cool work these are the
culmination of a lot of time that Eric's
been doing this in the past however many
weeks it's been months so just trying to
be helpful there but also trying to
understand it as well so you can
actually use it but that's that's really
the whole
to me nothing other than that major
stains out cool and does anyone else
want to give updates or has questions
yeah a quick update from me if I didn't
see the link to the heck pad probably
get posted or something anyway so I have
been working adding the car import and
export go ipfs because of the extra
concerns that we have with pinning with
GC being able to kick in while a current
Portus surroundings and things like that
there was a lot of thinking that had to
be done on how to actually you know put
all this together I am pretty sure that
by tomorrow we'll have financier for
this and I'll tag some of you rod and
Aiko as well to take a look over that
and on the side of that if we have time
doctor after the Durant way I would like
to talk a little bit why do we actually
have the header up front because both
when writing a car file it's getting in
the way and when the reading careful it
is also getting in the way so that's
something that I want us to cover cool M
is are there any other updates before we
get into the question from Peter no okay
I mean we can students to do updates if
you want to even later on so yeah then
it's go to be discretion about like yeah
the structure of car files who wants to
answer this question door do I need to
clarify the question or now I your ask
me one should go at the front rather
than at the time right right right
correct
[Music]
so streaming is one use case where that
comes in useful weight actually prevents
streaming because I can only validate
the header after I've streams everything
in yes revaluation but but streaming for
reading it gives you information upfront
that you may need so the right but all
we have in the header is here are my
here are my roots we don't actually have
an index or anything
so basically when we're importing we
basically we need to and because it's a
little bit more involved with basically
our patching which means that we need to
parse the roots from multiple files keep
them in memory get everything else in
and then go back and say okay from what
I got in and what I already have in the
store are those roots actually something
that is complete or I cannot actually
pin them do I need to error and stuff
like that
so even on reading it seems that it's
backwards at least for the import use
case Michael you've had trouble similar
trouble with this as well like having to
pre-compute a lot but with having it in
the title would that have changed
anything for your use case so tail isn't
it wouldn't work for me because um
so assuming I need the header at any
point in time the tail is open because
it's actually quite hard to read
backwards out of an s3 bucket so and
it's a variable length so it's a fix
like better I could read it because I
can't look at the file size and then
kind of go backwards but since I don't
like there's no way so that's just kind
of like a non-starter in my opinion like
if any information is in the header that
you need ahead of time then it's not
gonna work in a lot of cases I'm trying
to understand this streaming case so you
want to be able to stream the rights in
correct today's gonna be yeah yeah Peter
Peter so you say you you want to write
data and streaming in as right or you're
doing a selector and you
rather than ask the selector so whenever
I think things out it's it's obvious
that it's difficult you know to have to
have a header ahead of time so streaming
our basic exporting is a little bit you
know tricky but I was actually wondering
from import like I have a ganar file and
I'm importing it in I still need to look
at the header last because I need to go
to everything in the car put it in with
me into my plot store and only then I
can say can actually pin this stuff in
the routes or I do not have a
well-informed careful so what one a
little bit confused as to why import
automatically has to pin why that's not
just a separate operation because you
could just want to import the blocks and
not in them alright be yeah there is a
very very simple answer that so there is
an option to not pin or God if you don't
do that Dawson is on by default to pin
stuff because if you don't do that and
your cat is large the import will
actually GC while you're running
precisely
well no it will not do that because we
also have to lock everything but very
important but the moment the imports
finishes it will help you GC everything
away and that's why if we have multi
multi part car we actually have to
import everything and only then release
the lock so that that's why it was a
little more involved because if you have
car number one that cares half of the
dag car number two that has the route 2
p.m. and the rest of the deck which
combined with the first car actually
gives you a full deck
only then you can actually into it and
additionally enjoy TFS we have the use
case of doing patching where all you get
is the updates for the new route and you
ready to be able to figure out like ok
based on what is coming in this car plus
the restaurant cert already have in my
data store can actually pin this ok I
headed out ok
so for a deterministic car file when you
import it it should be the root first
and then all the blocks
the order so I don't know why you have
to go back and read the header at the
end because you can just keep the CID
around for the route and then read as
you're reading yeah yeah of course
okay and this what I meant basically
it's not a problem in terms of like you
know simple method of programming but
logically I need the header last anyway
when I am importing
it gives me nothing I basically just
read the header the only thing that I do
before actually started in the car file
is this version one or not that's only
the search further like so for so
determinism deterministic car files
aren't just the entire graph it's the
entire graph in a specific order because
you need to be able to validate in order
so what you actually should be able to
do is similar to like what graphs Inc
does on the client side like when you
start import you want that header to say
what the root note is and then get the
root node next validate that's the next
thing that you get and then all the rest
of blocks should come in order so you
actually do need it first if you're
doing the validation that it's
deterministic as you put it in what you
probably want to do if you if you can
only pin entire graphs and you want to
make sure that you're not importing
something you can't keep around you
should probably do the validation
streaming you can I see I guess the data
corollary to that is that basically I
assume that the car files that I get are
you know not made by Lotus or something
about behaving that they're just careful
with you know they're just backed so
data so from here yes I mean I can very
date them but I can't really jecht them
unless I basically have a strict mode or
something like that because yes you
probably want to run it and that's their
mode to be honest like especially
because you don't have the ending
infrastructure to be able to pin a
selector or a partial graph you have to
have the whole thing that you're
importing so if that's the case then you
might as well just be really strict
about it like most of the car files that
are getting created or deterministic so
all the ones that file coin creates
outright are deterministic all the ones
that you're going to
create with your export folks are going
to be deterministic you can you can
probably make this assumption and reject
ones apart the only people that are like
creating car files that are you feeling
sick or like me and the words yeah I
mean like like I'm doing it but this is
for like a very specific need and like
you can just say like we don't support
those right now although I do have
complete graphs I didn't complete graphs
and just the ordering is totally messed
up because I have to concurrently write
the blocks are exactly the same the same
thing in in in this tool that I'm
working on and this is something that we
want to open up for externals to start
using for experimenting over IP address
because before this prh before this
issue came up we were basically writing
our own careful kind of thing I mean in
insulin which makes no sense so
basically from going BFS standpoint this
is not as much falcone interoperability
thing but it's more of a better version
of the put api that doesn't basically
give you the penalty of one block one of
the block which is actually okay even
even even on the same machine like just
hitting one when you actually want to
create undetermined sidecar files as a
faster export mechanism okay and import
okay in that case but look this zip car
which has the type which has that in the
title you can use this yeah I mean I'm
still like I mean it's not hurting you
to have the header up front I do see why
you would need to keep a lot of stuff in
memory I think you can probably get away
with just keeping the CDs emember though
yes you yeah I'm not even saying like Oh
you know this block or anything I more
more wanted to like the more I think
about it the more I'm like there is no
use case aside from what you said right
now with the basically when if you have
a deterministic curveball that then you
can validate this you go any other use
case or a bunch of blogs with header
kind of calls for I want to see the
header last as well as one of my news
case might be inspecting account file
and saying what does it contain
it contains a graph with these selectors
that start from this root these roots
and if you if you have no way to go to
the end and come back again like with
zip file which you can do then you have
to go through the whole lot you know
skipping until you find the last block
to get that information so you can't do
like a go inspect on a go on a car file
if the header is lost unless we
introduce additional mechanisms also
I'll say like the the current spec is
basically locks like we can't touch it
and for the much we're really like when
we're talking about changes we'll talk
about the next version and then the next
version what we really want to do is
have like there not be a header block
like there is now and have the header
block be like an actual big super block
with the CID so you can really quickly
read this the idea and for the header to
contain all the selector so to contain
the routes end any selector to the
graphs that will be incredibly useful
because then you can really usually look
at the front of a car file really
quickly parse out not CID and go like Oh
am I seen this car file before like like
that kind of thing so now like the the
car file itself like what we used to
call like the route content header is
effectively the the cid of the car file
right and it like it means something a
lot more and in in those use cases you
definitely want it to be upfront right
it's just that in the state that the
header is and now or it doesn't provide
you very much like yeah it's not super
useful to have it at the beginning and
if you wanted it you might want it at
the end but in the future when we
actually can make changes I think that
there are use case we have more
information
yeah and now so basically the TLDR is
that the next header for v2 is actually
way more
than what we have right now therefore
okay yeah so yeah I have I have a bunch
of part of partial of notes for cavi too
that I was planning on putting up as
probably appear a rough PR against the
car spec just to start a discussion on
Calvi - I was going to try and do that
this week but I'll definitely pull you
in Peter to make sure that you able to
air all your concerns because I you know
I have concerns as well about the whole
format and I have since the beginning
but like I don't want to I don't want to
pretend to be the defender of header
first because that was one of my beasts
when I first came to the cards back as
well so that but I know there are other
people as well involved in this that
anonymous call that have strong opinions
about this stuff so let's let's do this
on github I mean if we want to do your
whole like in blocking next thing so you
can do the really quick lookup that
would go at the end I would like I would
want to put that at the end I don't know
what that's supposed to look like but we
should and just in case we have like the
new header will be a proper Seaborn
thing you could also have like the
information that the headers at the end
I mean this will be a header but like
the header will say well there's
indexing yeah yeah it needs to also say
if it's deterministic or not because it
earnest ik then it should always like
the whole car file should be white
matching some other one for that same
CID but also but it's like if you
doesn't say this is deterministic then
it could be all the same routes and
reversals and be like actually the
entire I guess one more note about what
you raised Michael that it's variable
length and it's difficult to do this
kind of you know sitting backwards for
this kind of stuff normally what
[Music]
some video formats do they basically
define like the last four bytes are the
length to go bad and in 64 that is
defined exactly how far back to go so
basically there are three six you seek
once you basically once how long the
thing is you read is four bytes and you
do another offset which already it is
important if this is an important news
case for you Peter then Zipcar is a
thing in JavaScript and go that will do
that and the compression is option is
optional as well so you don't have to
deflate so it's I had no idea that you
can do that compression is like not
required in zip files that blew my mind
I think that's actually everywhere there
is like no there is more or less no
compression algorithm that does not have
a store version a sort of code
compression of zero yeah anyway anyway
let's do that let's take this to github
because there's lots of good thoughts
and it'd be good to iron out all of the
as many of these things that bother us
about car in the next version and do it
ASAP so that we don't have too many car
v1 sitting around that we have to care
about that much
although Michael yours are probably
going to be the big the big ones stored
forever hopefully okay yeah I guess yeah
we passed the meeting so I also think we
don't have anything else to discuss and
I forgot to say that this week I have
limited availability because I go to
conference until end of the week but
yeah yeah cool so yes you all next week
same time same place
bye everyone